All right, we are continuing on our
series to show you different accounts
payable and bill pay software. And today
we're going to talk about the very
popular RAMP. So, you may have heard
about RAMP. It has been up and coming
over the past couple years. They've done
a good bit of advertising, and you may
have even seen a Super Bowl commercial.
Um, I know I did. They've got a lot of
funding, a lot of backing, and they can
do a lot. But I want to specifically
show you guys today, uh, we're going to
hop into the ramp platform and we're
going to talk about the bill pay and I'm
going to throw some bills in there.
We're going to talk about who it might
be good for, who it may not be good for,
and then you get to see also the user
interface. Now, Ramp did provide me with
a demo account, but it was not fully
enabled and I couldn't add bills and I
was like, you know what, I'm just I set
up a live account. So, this is an
account that is actually set up to a
real QuickBooks account and set up to a
real bank account so that I could test
all these features. Again, this is
accounting tech lab. So, if you want to
see real features being used directly
and understand how to use the software,
you want to be here. Um, so make sure
you're subscribed to the channel. I'm
very happy to have you here. And um,
let's go ahead and talk about RAMP
today. Okay, so here we are in RAMP. And
I wanted to remind you guys if you want
to check out RAMP, you can go to
finanieretelab.com/ramp
to use our code if you're interested.
Now, most of the services I'm showing
you today are all free, but they do have
a plus version of ramp, so you can get a
little bit more um intricate. You can
have access to a few more tools if you
get into plus, but a lot of what I'm
showing you is free. So, we don't have a
discount code because you can't go
better than free. Um, but if you do use
our link, it does help support the
channel, so I'd very much appreciate it.
I haven't fully set up everything you so
you can see the ramp setup guide is
still trying to get me to walk through a
few things, but I just got it basically
set up to where I could start to play
around with the bill pay settings. Okay,
so um just a real quick kind of walk
through over here on the side. We have
the homepage and then we have insights
and then we get into some of the
services that Ramp can provide. So, they
can do the spend management where you
can issue um virtual cards or real cards
like I was actually sent a you know
physical card that gave me a little bit
of spending on it. And then you can
manage your expenses through receipt
capture and then you can also do travel.
So, if you have employees traveling a
lot, it might be something worth
checking out. If you guys are interested
in more of a deep dive on any of these
modules, please let me know. But, we're
going to spend time today in bill pay.
So, I'm going to go ahead and get us
into the bill pay section. So, just the
highle overview. Um, we this is the
overview page of bills. Um, we can look
at draft bills, the ones that are ready
for approval, the ones that are ready to
be scheduled to pay, and then things in
the past. So, history of, you know,
after you've paid the bills. And there's
lots of different ways to get bills into
the system. So, I can drag and drop
things directly. I'm going to show you
guys how to do that in a second. Um, you
can forward your invoices. So, this is
already set up with a custom URL. I can
copy that and forward it directly from
my email. You can create bills from
spreadsheets. And you then you can just
create a bill without an invoice. So, if
you're like, hey, I know I need to pay
this person. They haven't sent me
anything, but I want to get it paid.
Then you might go ahead and put it in
here. So, for example, like this might
be really great if you are paying rent
to your landlord and they don't send you
a bill every month, but you want to have
a bill structured in there so that it's
in your AP system that you know it's
coming up and you can schedule those
payments. And I believe, yeah, you can
set up recurring bills as well. So, this
might be a great one to set up as a
recurring, for example. Okay, so um this
is similar to really the other systems
that we've seen. We can forward
invoices. All this is pretty much the
same. So, what I'm going to do here is
I've got a separate window up over here
and I'm just going to go ahead and drop
I'm grabbing a file and I'm just
dragging it over here and I'm going to
drop it. Now, I'm going to do this and
I'm actually going to do three at the
same time just to see how it handles it.
So, I've got three. Let's see what
happens. Okay, so it's giving me
uploading three invoices now. So, you
can see here that this one says it's
missing info. It's got this little
partial sort of half moon indicator. And
then these are ready for review. So
often times if you upload something and
there's not already a vendor into the
system in the system already that it's
not matching, then it's going to pop up
with this missing information. Um now
these it must have been able to find the
vendor already because first of all I
did um kind of play around with this
before I started recording. So some of
these vendors are already in the system.
And when I set up RAMP and I connected
it to the QuickBooks online account, it
recognized vendors and it asked me if I
wanted to import those vendors that are
already in my accounting system and I
said yes to that. So some of these
vendors were already there from other
tests that I've done um on the channel.
So because of that um some of this
information is already in the system. So
let's go ahead and look first at the
missing information one. So we're going
to go here. I can click on it. I could
also click that button review over on
the side. And so it's giving me lots of
red. Okay. So, it perfectly imported the
image. That's really nice to see over
here. And it does allow me the ability
to zoom, which I also like, which is
great. But it basically says um the
vendor is missing a state in the vendor
contact. Okay. So, it identified a
vendor. It's just saying it's not
totally complete here. So, we're going
to go ahead and just put Washington
here. Now, it I don't know why it didn't
read it from here, but it basically
probably the vendor contact didn't have
a state for whatever reason. Okay, I'm
just going to go ahead and put a um
email address here that is not the
vendor email address, but I just want to
have one.
Okay, and then let's see. It imported a
lot of the information correctly. So, it
imported um 4072
correctly and then the invoice date, due
date, all of that is looking good. Now,
one thing that I think is kind of good
is it creates a a description for this
bill and this does not match the invoice
at all. So, it is must be using some
type of AI technology to come up with a
summary of what this bill is. And I
really like that because I think that
this gives us a good sense of like, hey,
it's kind of getting the point of what
this bill is and it's getting writing
this description for us. I did not do
anything there. Um, so that was correct.
That was correct. That was that's
correct. Um, you could go in here and
edit it if it wasn't for some reason.
And then, um, it put in here consulting
November website work, which is what we
have here. And then we have the total
26,250. Now, this did not um autopop
populate the quantity and the price, and
that's okay for me in this bill, but I
just wanted to point that out. And then
it did not accurately pick up the um
website
account. Now, you can save this as
default for future bills, which I think
is great. And also in vendor setup,
there is the ability to put the default
account in here. So, when you set up the
vendor, you can put in a default
account, which is really helpful. Um,
and then if I wanted to add more line
items, I could. I don't need to because
this is just one line item. The amount
is correct. All is good. And then I have
the ability to just go ahead and
schedule payment right now for this
bill. I kind of like this because it
doesn't make me save the bill and then
go to schedule payment later. I can do
that by clicking schedule later and then
just saving and creating the bill, but I
kind of like the ability to just go
ahead and do it now. I think that's
pretty cool. I'm not going to actually
schedule. I'm just going to put schedule
later for now. And then also the other
thing that I think is pretty neat is
that you can put in approvers
specifically for this bill and make any
adjustments down here at the bottom.
Okay. Now, you can set up your general
approvals in a separate area. Um, we
probably won't have time to touch on
that today, but to say like if the
invoice is over this amount, this person
needs to approve. I don't have any other
people in the system because this is a
test environment, but we can set up a
more complicated approval structure and
um, but if you needed something very
specifically for this one, you could
just add another approval. So, you could
add a admin, a department budget owner,
department owner, PO owner, vendor
owner. So, there's a lot of different
like ownership structures you can set up
in the system and make sure that things
are being routed to the right person.
Okay. And we're going to just go ahead
and create this bill. Okay. After I
clicked create bill, it just opened up
the very next one for us here. So, it's
already identified the vendor and then
it's identified um an invoice number
here. Now, this is technically the
account number um not the invoice
number. Invoice numbers would change
over time for you and it a number would
be the same for you every single time.
So, it's probably not the best thing to
use for an invoice number. Actually, I
should just take that out. Um, and I
would just write in November 2025. Okay.
Um,
so, and again, this uh picked up the
invoice date and the due date correctly.
It also created a um good description.
No, no issues there. Now, one thing I
wanted to see because when we were
playing around with some of the other
platforms, we could go in here and just
like quickly like copy and paste things
like click on some of this stuff. Um,
and it does look like we are able to do
that. So, it says copy new charges due
date. Um,
and I just pasted that into that there.
So, that's kind of good to know. You can
copy and paste if for some reason it
didn't pull in the information correctly
from the bill. You do have that ability.
And then let's go down and kind of look
here and see what it did. So this was
one of the more complicated bills that
kind of has multiple different services
and they're kind of summed up. There's
discounts. There's lots of different
things. So RAMP uses AI technology to
pull this stuff in. It looks like it did
a pretty good job. So it pulled the main
charge for the month and then it pulled
in the home networking service for 105
and then 15 and then it pulled in the
discounts properly actually. um autopay
discount and then paperless bill
discount. It pulled in those correctly.
No adjustments needed made and then it
did properly put in um the taxes as
well. So I'd say RAMP did a really good
job identifying what was on the bill and
putting it into the different line
items. Um and I have already set up
Ziply as a vendor and put the default
category to internet. So that's how it
knew that this was all internet. Um, but
you know, I don't need to have all these
different line items hit my accounting
system. So, what I prefer is just to
collapse all line items, which you can
click on here, collapse those line
items, and then it took the sort of
summary and um the summary of the
description, and then it put it into
just the total of 10658, which is our
total here, which is correct. All right.
And so, I'm just checking to make sure
everything's good. If this was more of
like a direct billable cost, we could
put it to a customer and then we can
make it billable yes or no. But this is
just an overhead cost for the business.
So, no big deal. And then um we will
schedule this for later. So, we put the
schedule later. And then we're going to
go ahead and create bill. Again, we can
put an approver on here. We don't need
to. We can also put a memo here to the
vendor if we want to. Um so, let's go
ahead and create that bill. So, this is
the third one that I uploaded into the
system, and it already identified the
vendor because the vendor was already in
the system. Okay, I'm going to show you
how to create a vendor, too. Um, but
here's the invoice number, and then
here's the invoice date, which is very
old. Now, it did give me a notification
to say, "Hey, this this this is a really
old bill," basically, and I just ignored
it earlier when I was doing the testing,
so it didn't come up again. Um, and then
this gave again a very good description.
Let lo yarn in various colors and lot
quantities, which is great because I
don't think anywhere on this bill it
actually said the word yarn. So, it
figured that out somehow. So, that must
be using some AI. Um, so, uh, very good
that it did that. Now, one very
interesting thing, this is inventory.
This is a bill for an inventory. And
this inventory should be coming into the
system with um like to be assigned to
inventory properly. We don't want to
charge it directly to the inventory
account. We want to have it show up with
the exact skew. So if we're buying an
item of this type of yarn, we want it to
match into our accounting system of that
item that's already set up to um to
identify so it says, "Hey, we've got
more of that quantity." Okay? because we
want to keep our inventory aligned. Now,
because this is set up to a QuickBooks
account that does not have this
inventory item set up, and I was go I I
actually tried to go and test it, but I
had to upgrade my QuickBooks account to
inventory if I wanted to do that. And I
was like, "Hey, I don't want that extra
expense right now." So, I did not set it
up uh just for the purposes of this
video. But I did look into how um ramp
will handle items like inventory items.
So ramp will automatically identify and
I want to show you here. Um you can
switch this to an item rather than an
expense item. And when it's an item,
this would automatically pull if you
have this item in your inventory in
QuickBooks already, then you can pull it
into here and match it. And this the
system should match it. So, if it
identified that I had this let lope be
um item, I don't know if it would have
to be perfect here um to be to say
everything or if I could just put in the
inventory item is maybe let low be 005.
If I had that in my inventory, my guess
is it probably would have identified
that and put it in here. We'll have TBD.
We'll have to test that further. Um, but
if anybody knows, I'd love to know if
you've tried this. But, um, yeah, this
is the text that it identified and it
should have pulled an inventory item.
Um, RAMP is saying that the system is
smart enough to know if it needs to go
to expense items or if it needs to go to
inventory. So, in a situation like this,
it is looking and searching the
accounting system to see if there is an
inventory item associated. I'm going to
trust the help section to say like, hey,
it should do that. How it's actually
working. I feel like we're going to need
to go a step further and we're going to
need to test it. Um, so maybe I'll be
able to do another test down the road,
but this is important for people for you
guys who have inventory and you're
tracking inventory. You don't want to
add it this way where it just is
expensed directly to inventory. You
don't want to do it that way because if
you're tracking quantity, you need to
intake your quantity to the appropriate
skew because you're selling it at a at a
skew too and you need to track quantity
that way. You don't want to just put
this into the general inventory bucket
because it's not going to give you
accurate data. Okay. So, but it did do a
good job at reading both the handwriting
and um the text here. And then it does
read when we switch this into the item
format the number of units and then the
amount per unit for the total here. So
it did a good job. Um I don't see any
issues as I scroll down. And then the
total 825 was identified. So that's good
as well. So I mean overall I think this
did a really good job. I'm very curious.
And now I'm like maybe I just need to go
ahead and pay for the upgrade on
QuickBooks um to get that test to see
like what what we needed to call our
inventory item. Could we just call it
let low be 005 and this would have
identified that item? My guess is that
it would have um but we'll have to test
to be determined. But I am very happy to
see that you can import line items and
expense items because for those of you
who are tracking inventory, you have to
do that line item. Um, you have to put
it in as a line item. Okay. So, very,
very good. All of that is good. I'm just
going to go ahead and create the bill so
we can see them all. Oh, it's telling me
I need to put an inventory item. So, I'm
just going to switch this back to
expense so we can save it. Let's go back
to kind of reviewing everything. um zero
of one are for approval. So now I can go
in here and just click approve, approve,
approve. So now if I want to schedule
these bills um just so I can give you
guys an example, I thought that now that
I approve these, these would all show up
for payment, but it says you haven't
scheduled any bills to be paid yet. So
we still either need to go into each
bill and schedule it, or we can schedule
it here and click pay now. And then I
can schedule, you know, if I want it to
be paid tomorrow.
Um, I could do that.
So, it says AC ver version. Um, let's
see. It's probably going to tell me I
don't have a information for this.
Okay, now it's telling me payment
details are needed for these vendors.
Interesting. It wasn't showing it
earlier. Now I clicked on for a payment
and now they're all here. So let's see
what is it telling me I need. So we did
approvals. Things are scheduled but
payment has not been initiated because
payment details are needed. So now it's
going to tell me what is needed to make
that happen. So probably here in the a
details. Um,
but interesting because
it's not allowing me to do it here.
So, probably what I would have to do is
to go into my vendor for this one.
So, three vendors are missing payment or
tax details.
So, here's that one vendor.
Let me just click on it.
Payment and tax.
So, I can put the tax status here and
then I can add
payment details. Now, one thing that's
nice is I can request information
directly to the vendor. I'm not going to
do this because this is a live email
address. Um, but if we wanted to do
this, if I wanted to request,
um, I could,
um, I could request the a details, I
could request the mail details, the wire
details, and the W9. Okay, so I like
this because you can request more than
one thing at a time. So, you can send
this request and then you can get their
AC, you could get their check, and you
could get their, you know, W9
information all at the same time. Um, so
really like that ability. And that's not
like an extra charge or anything like
that. It's just part of the system.
Okay. So, I did send a request to my CL
CFO email just to see like what does
this look like from the user
perspective. And so, I wanted to show
you what that looks like. The vendor
would get an email that says, you know,
your company requests information from,
you know, you and then um you it would
give your payment details and your tax
details. And then you could just click
this and kind of follow through. So, I
clicked that link in the email and then
this is what I got. I can add my payment
details. I can add my domestic wire, my
check, and then to do the W9. So, I'm
not going to do that for the purposes,
but you know, really easy, simple
interface, no problem. So, just going
back to the bill section, we can see,
you know, again, overview, anything
that's for approval, anything that's for
payment, you need to resolve anything
before you can actually pay. um really
easy to go ahead and get the payment
details from your vendors directly using
the system. All right. Now, I did want
to show you what it looks like to set up
a new vendor. So, um I am going to go to
the vendor section down here on the
lefth hand side and then we're just
going to create a new vendor. I'm going
to go ahead and add
one of my other um fake companies. So,
let's add this as a vendor. So you type
in the name and then
you can put in the address
and then you have this um opportunity to
use a vendor owner. So if you're a
fairly large organization and you have
lots of different maybe like project
managers or things like that like they
could be the person kind of in charge of
owning the relationship with that
vendor. You can put them in here which
is kind of nice. Um and then you can set
special approval limits that way too.
Um, so you would put your vendor contact
information. I'm just going to go ahead
and, you know, put our email in here.
And then we do have the ability to
invite this vendor to the vendor
network. Okay. So that is how um the
vendor network is similar to kind of
like the QuickBooks vendor network. They
have one as well. And I think also like
bill.com I think also has a vendor
network. Um, but you can learn more
about it. Um, but basically it just
allows you to
comment directly on bills, receive
payment amounts, request the W9s, and
you can invoice directly through the
system, too. So, um, that can be nice.
You don't have to do that, but I'm going
to turn that off. And then you just put
in all the information that you need
here. This is where you would put in the
payment details for the vendor. And so
you can request that from the vendor
directly
or you can enter them manually if you
already have them. And this is also
where you can do your tax information.
So you can either upload or enter in
your W9 information or you can request
it. So this is another place that you
can request this from the vendor. And
then um it's wanting us to do that. So
I'm just going to put enter manually and
enter manually. Now it doesn't want me
to do that. Okay. So, because I don't
have this information, it's not wanting
me to move forward. Um, it did allow me
to just say skip for now, but I'm just
showing you guys like what you need in
order to add a vendor. So, we don't need
to add that. So, um, looks really good
overall to add vendors. Very easy peasy.
So, I wanted to show you a couple of the
limitations that I found to the system.
We have this example invoice that has a
lot of different invoices in one file.
Um, so this is a Home Depot one. So, I'm
going to just drop that here and see
what it does. So, we tested this out in
Makershub and Makershub was able to
identify the fact that it was like 68
different bills all associated in this
one PDF. Let's see what RAMP does with
this one. Okay, not so good. Um, so
let's click on this and look at it. So,
it wants me to it's it's identifying
that I don't have Home Depot in the
system. So, I'm just going to click
create a new vendor real quick.
And then I'm going to kind of skip
through this. Skip this for now just to
create the vendor. So now we have the
bill over here on the right. And you can
see it's got a lot of pages. A lot of
pages. Like scroll down. A ton of pages.
Um so that is interesting. And then the
only thing that ramp identified was
only thing that Ramps identified was
two items. Um, so even if we just looked
at this first invoice here, I'm going to
zoom in a little bit.
The total was $8.27.95. So, it did get
that correct, but it really didn't get
anything else correct on the bill. Um,
these items aren't even correct. Total
and previous balance. Like, that doesn't
really make any sense. So, there was
very specific items that were purchased.
Um, if funnily enough, the multiple
invoices for plumbing supplies, water
heaters, and management fees, the
description is fairly okay. Um, but the
line items pulled in are definitely not
correct. Um, so this would be an example
of one that like if you've got this type
of invoice coming in, oftent times like
I don't think ramp can handle it right
now. Um, so you'd probably have to go
and like split this into different files
and then upload them, which would be a
huge pain in the butt. So, we're going
to just back out of this. Um, and I'm
going to delete that draft.
All right. So, I uploaded another one
here. And this one also has missing
information. So, let's take a look here.
And, um, we couldn't find an existing
vendor. Um, let's go ahead and create a
new vendor. I'm just going to skip
forward on this.
Okay, now let's see what it did here.
So, this is another example of a I'm
going to make this bigger. So, this
invoice was rather complicated. You can
see lots of different line items. We
have square yards, square foot, each
times, like there's a lot of different
things going on here. Um this is an
example of an invoice that did not
translate over so well into um into
ramp. So they did get the total amount
right 129755.
So that is correct but really it did not
get down to the details. So, let's say
you are a property manager or something
like that and you wanted to redo like
three different properties and you
bought carpet from this um carpet
company and this needed to be built to
three different customers and there's
just no way um without I mean we can go
line by line and like split all of this
out very detailed but like this would
take a lot of time to sit here and um
you know break everything out per um
project and per line item. So, um, this
is one that like Makershub would
definitely handle much better. And, um,
I just wanted to show this to you guys.
So, sometimes when there's a lot of
complexity that you have, um, you know,
you might want to test out both systems
and see which one can handle it better.
But, like, um, if we uploaded this into
Maker Hub, it would be, um, it would be
a lot a lot more streamlined and it
would recognize a lot of the stuff. Um,
at least it would pull in a lot of these
line items. Um, I don't think we tested
that on the on the detail, but maybe
we'll do that in the next video. So, um,
this is just a good example of maybe one
that didn't come through quite so well.
So, some of these are great, some not so
much. Um, so that's why, you know,
there's really not a one-sizefits-all
for accounts payable solutions, okay,
you guys? Like, we need to think about
what is the type of information that
your business is going to be processing
and then, you know, how do you get it
into the system? So yes, could you put
this one into the system? Absolutely. It
would just take a lot more manual labor
to sit there and put line by line item
into um into the bill and then order to
pay it. Okay. So um all things bill pay.
Okay. Um again for payments we can send
a we can send wire transfers and we can
send paper checks. I can't review
history with you because this is not a
live account or it we haven't paid
anything through the account, but this
can be helpful too if you need to go and
research something. Um, so overall, this
is ramp bill pay. So if you're
considering ramp for maybe some of the
spend management, but you're thinking,
hey, could I also use it for my bill
pay? I think it's got a lot of great
tools here. Um, so definitely worth
checking out. If you want to check out
RAMP, you can go to
finanialltechlab.com/ramp
r a m p and um you can check that out.
All right. Well, thank you guys so much
for being here. And if you have any
other questions about ramp or if you
want me to demo any of these other
modules, please put that in the comment
section below. I'd be happy to test it
out for you. Um but I want to make sure
it's of interest. So, make sure that you
let me know if it's of interest to you
and I will explore it. All right. Well,
thank you so much and I'll see you in
the next video.